foreign
welcome to another episode of the cro
confidential podcast I'm your host Sam
blonde delighted to be here this is our
first recording of 2023 despite it being
the second pod that we will have
released once again we have an
incredible guest joining for joining us
today uh one interesting thing about
this guest he's actually the most
commonly requested uh guest that we have
had um so we're giving the fans what
they would like uh today's guest is Ben
Braverman Ben has been at flexport for
the last eight years that's a hell of a
run bin
um five and a half of those years as cro
one and a half of those years as Chief
customer officer another one and a half
of those years leading the flexport fund
so joined the Dark Side of investing Ben
joined uh flexport like employee five
this reminds me of Matt blank uh it
Rippling very early sales leader
employee number five seed Stage Company
uh uh flexport was most recently valued
at eight billion dollars uh several
billion dollars of top line revenue
hundreds of millions of dollars of uh
net revenue thrilled to have you here
Ben and uh excited to jump into a
conversation
uh Sam thank you so much for inviting me
to do this and good congratulations on
the new game response so you can join
the Dark Side uh this is as hardcore as
again it's good for you congratulations
thank you so much I'm thrilled to be
here and uh uh just it's been a an
amazing four months let's Jump Right In
um we're gonna set some context so Jason
limkin of course founder and CEO of
saster had a tweet last week that
resonated with me
um it read my entire LinkedIn feed is
folks leaving their current role the
first week of the New Year there are
lots of reasons for high employee
turnover right now we're not going to go
into those on this pod but it's
happening last episode deeney from
lattice and I talked about seeing more
heads of sales positions open than ever
these new heads of sales are going to be
recruiting their teams given all of this
turnover today we're going to be talking
about the characteristics folks should
look for in a company that's going to be
a winner and if you're a founder or an
exec at a startup there should be a
bunch of takeaways on things you can be
doing to attract the best people in the
world to your company uh Ben you and I
have been fortunate to join some
companies that have experienced a lot of
success you with flexport that we just
talked about me with both zenefits and
Rex why don't we start there what was it
about Flex Ford eight years ago that got
you so excited to join as cro
yeah I love that you you ended the
sentence with eight years ago because
it's so hard to put yourself in the same
frame of mind that you were in in an
entirely different phase of your life
and so when I'm trying to myself back in
the position of someone who is still a
seller like whether it's uh whether
you're a head of sales at a smaller
company whether individual contributor
carrying a bag I'm trying to like
transport myself back to how I felt when
I met Ryan which was you know Ryan
Peterson flight Sports founder and CEO
uh very very well known as the guy who
toured CNN around the the ports during
the port crisis
um when I met Ryan I was ahead of sales
for a series a Stage Company I'd never
seen anything like flexport frankly it
was a different era in Silicon Valley
where it was like it was before coinbase
and brex and flexport and all these
companies went on the runs we went on it
was sort of hard to conceive of
companies could get this big this fast
um so like what did I actually use to
make my decision like first to invest my
life savings in Black sport and then
ultimately to make the BET to like okay
let's let's put every waking hour every
day into this thing go work for Ryan
full time with cro like how do I make
the decision so one um great Founders
are inherently compelling like you know
Sam you you and Parker I'll let you talk
about Parker but like these these guys
are when you meet them you can just feel
in your bones they are different kinds
of human beings than most of the other
people you've ever met even in Elite
parts of of your life
um they just they feel different you
learn in every conversation you get
energy from every conversation and
that's not important because like it's
important for you to feel good it's
important because that's what every
candidate's gonna feel so that every
investor is going to feel it's like so
much of this is
um like the the you know Jeff from
Bedrock calls it Vive investing so much
of picking who you're gonna go work for
who you're gonna invest in is how do
they make you feel and then the next
thing is like one of the things that
bill trencher talks a lot about which is
founder marketed so in in Ryan's case he
had already built a business
um so first of all he was not a
first-time founder his last business was
coming from import genius.com that was
incredibly profitable uh again if you
rewind back to 2012 San Francisco uh
idea of a profitable software company
was unheard of like none of us never met
a software company that made money and
like in many cases some of them still
haven't uh Ryan had this company in poor
genius they basically took public data
structured it made it available uh for
third parties made it searchable
um and they just sold access to it for
like 100 bucks a month per seat and the
business absolutely printed and still
does Prince cash
um and when I met Ryan it was so
compelling to hear not only did he build
this business it was so successful he
didn't care about it at all like his
entire world was about this new thing
flexport and when I asked him why he
said look the terminal value of my
current business is at some point it has
to be zero right it's public data at
some point someone will organize it
better make it cheaper whatever
um and by the way this is not it has not
happened other people have tried turns
out the information is a really good
company
um but he believed it was that this new
thing was going to be so much bigger and
this gets to like sort of the next thing
that helped me factor into my decision
he explained to me the market size he
said look the top 10 of these incumbent
providers like the folks that he
intended to compete against the flexport
they combined for like a quarter
trillion a year of annual turnover of
Revenue
um like that was a crazy number and then
he sent me to one of their websites and
it was like uh I think it was XPO
Logistics but I can't remember who it
was at the time but anyway they had like
10 different logins on there if you
clicked customer portal you just had 10
different logins because the business
had been built by acquisition they were
all running on some version of Windows
95 or as400 Mainframe and every product
you were going to buy from this company
you logged into a different system uh so
then I sort of took Ryan's word for when
he explained to me The NPS in this
industry right which I just explained to
you is like a whole number chunk of GDP
um everyone hates their vendor like
every vendor is bad at running their
business every vendor has no software to
run their business and therefore every
customer is frustrated uh and so it's
like okay I have this insanely
compelling founder who has incredible to
use build transfer's term incredible
founder market fit
um I got so lucky that I met him at the
moment where the business was real
enough that I could learn all these
things but it was sort of new enough
that he would take a chance on me as
sort of an unproven relatively early
stage sales leader so yeah those are all
the things that factored into my
decision and I think if you can sort of
use that combination of founder any sort
of overall quality
um founder market fit and then ideally
like a Founder entering a market that is
either growing really quickly like Sam
Allman likes to talk about it in other
words he just proved with with open AI
or that is just totally right for
disruption like like Transportation was
if you if you find all those things like
you may you know maybe consider giving
it a go
foreign
there's going to be a lot of
consistencies I'll talk a little bit
about I won't go super deep um I'll talk
a little bit about joining zenefits and
joining bricks
um lots of uh we'll hear the word
founder a lot I I have a feeling and
that'll probably remain true throughout
the rest of this call
um when I joined uh zinfits Parker
um was introduced to me by Jason limkin
uh Jason was my CEO at Echo sign uh and
had sort of moved on after the
acquisition Adobe had acquired Echo sign
and Jason was an incredible advocate for
me personally and introducing me to a
lot of early stage Founders and before
Jason introduced me to Parker he
prefaced it with this is one of the best
like this is one of the best Founders
I've ever met and he's raising an
insanely competitive round
um I remember like those two data points
in particular from Jason prior to the
like you know Sam meet Parker email went
out
um I met Parker uh we'll go super deep
was just like Blown Away uh similar
sentiment to what you described with
meeting Ryan
um and and one important characteristic
here is I I just really believed that he
was going to build a massive business he
told me his innovitz was going to be a
hundred billion dollar company and I
believed him
um and I think you know I'll talk more
about that later on when we get into
what what folks should look for in
companies more in the abstract versus uh
uh just like this one um story but uh
that's that's important like the
Ambitions to build a really big business
uh I gravitate towards
um with brex sort of a similar story
just different players uh YC introduced
me to brex uh they said it's the company
they are most excited about from any
batch in several years uh and I met with
Pedro Enrique Michael who is the the CFO
now CEO of the company Blown Away by the
team one thing that I I remember in
particular and this is sort of similar
to Parker saying that he was going to
build a 100 billion dollar company when
I joined the Wi-Fi when I was
interviewing for brex that I asked the
password or maybe there was like a card
that said the password and the password
was by Amex 2024.
um and so of course I this is this was
this was 2018 so this was five years ago
now and you know will be six years ago
in 20 2014. and this was like I mean
this was the definition of a startup at
the time there were probably like 10 or
12 employees for all intents and
purposes it was out of like somebody's
garage
um yeah and of course I inquired about
the the Wi-Fi password and like they
actually had a plan like this they
wanted to buy American Express in 2024
um and I walked away like these guys are
going to build a massive business
whether or not they they want or whether
or not they'll be successful buying
American Express uh that was attractive
to me and just I'll flag one important
Point through this um that hopefully is
a takeaway for the audience
um based on my personal experience I I
can't underestimate the importance of
using your personal Network both as a
candidate as and as an employer and for
me it was Jason with zenefits it was YC
with brex and when I say personal
Network I generally see this in one of
three categories so the the first is
investors
um Jason at the time was I think he was
at storm Ventures but he was he was he
was in remains with faster fund Avicii
um and YC uh was the largest it was and
is the largest shareholder of Rex today
um Rex was a YC company and then also
follow on investments through IC
continuity and if your investors aren't
helping recruit for you I don't think
they're doing their job
um this is mostly reserved for senior
hires that said I'm making AE intros
left and right for portal polio
companies but leverage investors to make
introductions
um to just a recruit for you make
introductions to prospective employees
second category of this personal network
is former colleagues
many of the best Founders that I talk
with that are on the early stage side
their entire company is built of folks
from their prior company
um and so they're just leveraging their
personal network of former colleagues
and you know um and it can be
cross-departmental you have
relationships there find out who the
best folks were depending on what what
role you need to hire for and leverage
that reputation and network and then the
last one is social network um this is a
little like counter-intuitive or counter
maybe to traditional advice which is
like don't mix friends and work or
something like that I've had two podcast
guests on one is Jameson young one is
Matt plank these were my my social
friends
um back you know when we had just moved
to San Francisco right out of uh College
we would hang out on the weekends and go
to bars and you know just became buddies
and they were two people that I brought
into Echo sign as a AES they join me
ultimately at zenovitz and like it's
worked out great
um and so I think leveraging your social
network counter to maybe other advice at
least in my experience has worked well
but uh you know that's that's maybe the
biggest takeaway that I would
um uh have from my personal experience
with joining these companies is man like
when Jason told me about Parker and when
YC told me about uh Pedro Enrique
Michael brex that heavily influenced my
decision-making process because I
trusted them so much
yeah 100 and it's you know you put
yourself in a position where these folks
are willing to give you their candid
assessment of who their most interesting
portfolio companies were which is I
obviously an Envy World position to be
and not everybody will find themselves
there but yeah if people are willing to
give you sort of their best 30 minutes
so to speak you know the best company
they found in years of searching in the
case of YC through hundreds or thousands
of companies there's really nothing
that's going to be higher signal than
that uh and it kind of feels like as a
candidate it's like sure if you get
really lucky and you know someone
building something amazing personally
already great go go work for them you
don't need to validate it much further
if you if you really are confident they
are the the number one person to give a
domain but in many cases it's easier to
start with heat and go okay what what
companies have the most heat what
companies are the most people talking
about getting the sort of Law of
Attraction whatever you want to call it
and then as your second step like before
you accept the offer assess if the
company has substance because some of
them don't like some of them are going
to be that virtual meetings start up
today which is escaping me where the
founders sold all that secondary and
retired Switzerland like that company
had a ton of heat during covet uh now
it's gone
um so like you have to you do have to do
that second step of assessing is there
real stuff in southern underneath but in
your case like when you looked into what
zenovich was building ultimately what
brex built I mean it was just obvious
like these were special people building
special things endorsed by the smartest
people in the world like if you try to
think much more than that about what
you're going to work on next I think
you'll probably make a worse decision
uh we're obviously aligned and I think
really good segue it's interesting as
our careers have evolved we're now
oftentimes in this position I imagine
you have lots of people coming to you we
talked about this is a time for
transition I imagine you're now in this
position where folks are coming to you
and saying uh do you know these the the
companies that I should be speaking with
and maybe more high level like what are
uh the things that I should be focused
on when finding the next Flex port and
so I would love to hear some of the sort
of like characteristics that you
describe
um in in hyper growth potentially next
Flex sport super successful businesses
yeah and from what from what perspective
is this coming from is this the
candidate or is this as an investor like
what what what what Viewpoint are you
looking for
well I think um more so the candidate um
if if somebody comes to you and and they
say
um I'm looking for my first VP of sales
role yeah or they're a sales person I I
want to join an early stage startup what
I've been like tell me the things that I
should be solving for in finding the
Next Great Tech business
yeah okay so this is I love this
question there have been a ton of the
folks that I love that we kind of came
up together at flexboard you know for
you it's it's plank the other folks for
me it's a you know some folks that have
graduated out of flexport recently that
were sort of getting their first
external sales leadership role and I'd
say there's sort of been two paths that
I found really interesting
um one I'll give the name and what I
want why is Julie Harris so Julie Harris
who you know amazing sales leader um she
joined flexport and she basically built
her career in mainland China uh you know
get her did a joint NBA I think with
Shanghai University and Colombia so she
was sort of behind in a sense if you
came back to the U.S so like we were
very fortunate that she had spent some
time in China because it made her sort
of have to start over in U.S tech sales
so she took an eight year role with
flexport absolutely knocked it out of
the park
um builds our Enterprise segment ran it
full stop like you know Enterprise for
flexport so much of the revenue comes
post for sale that you have to run it as
an integrated segment where it's like if
you're responsible for the revenue for
Enterprise you pretty much have to be
responsible for this for the service
because you can't decouple the two in
the eyes of the customer so either right
Julie built this whole thing for us
after six years you ready to leave
flexboard and she she was like you know
this is a huge decision this is someone
who has built a sterling reputation
built in a norm this book of business I
mean hundreds and hundreds of millions
of turnover probably this year over a
billion in turnover in the book that
Julie directly managed
um you know by the time she left lexport
um and she had to figure out okay what
do I do next which like you don't want
to squander this amazing position she
was in and she met a ton of companies to
your point I mean I think most of her
introductions came from VCS who were
hoping to land her as a as a cro at
their company it came from um it came
from other Founders so she who she'd
become friends with uh again some of it
came from recruiters but I think a lot
more of it came at least the highest
Fidelity intros came from the investors
themselves and ultimately I think the
way she made the decision is super
interesting which was like founder first
like to your point it was all about
finding a Founder where she was like
yeah I'm gonna go to war with this
person I'm going to send the better part
of a half decade a decade whatever it
may be uh that was that was the key
thing and then it was in this
environment I think you only want to go
work for companies that are backed by
the best like in this case she went to a
Founders fund company called CSO s-e-s-o
hey shout out Michael
um uh I I had a chance to meet him
briefly and explain what the business
was it was one of those businesses like
as you're hearing about it and I I won't
steal their thunder you can go to the
website and see what they do it's an
agriculture uh basically Labor
Management platform
um when you're when you hear what they
do you realize okay there's no one else
on Earth this smart that's going to
build this product in this enormous
category all they need is someone like
Julie to go roll up all the major
Employers in the space like it required
no imagination for her to go okay I'm
gonna love working with this CEO I know
the business works like there's no
question about if this business works
there's all the evidence I need they are
backed by the best investors in the
world the founders fund and this is true
I didn't mean to be a plug for Founders
thought uh it just happens to be that
Julie just went through this process
um and and you know when she posted that
she she joined CSO cro last week like
600 people liked it on LinkedIn to give
you a sense of like what what a beloved
person this is
um and I think she navigated this
process as well with anyone so like that
as a sales leader I think you agree you
you really in this market you have a lot
of choice like
um there's a guy named Joel May who runs
the recruiting front called Bridge gate
out of Manhattan Beach who told me 70 of
the best cross in the market retired
after the last cycle like folks made so
much money
um they see how much harder the next 10
years is going to be in the previous ten
with higher interest rates and so if you
are sort of one of those top tier
candidates you're coming out of a flex
board off a hot run uh make sure you you
like I think Julie spent six or eight
months Consulting to nail down this
killer role at stiso um and I think
that's exactly what I would do as a
senior candidate now as well
um if you're if you're a rep if you're
like if you're a sales person who's an
individual contributor you know you have
so many more choices which in some ways
makes it harder and harder to stand out
um and if you're going to join a company
today as a seller I think the most
important question to ask is has my
category been negatively impacted by the
new economic environment like like for
instance like Salesforce reduce 10 of
their staff yesterday or two days ago
whatever it was and then the office
signal that he may do more
um if you were in one of these
businesses that is dependent on other
businesses to grow in order for you to
sell like the
this this potential recession we're
heading into it's just going to be super
tough to thrive
um whereas conversely like there's a
company out of France called pigment
um I I can't remember if there's a
benefit company or not for the sake of
not sounding like a shell um but they
basically do scenario planning and
simulation so if you want to if you want
to look at figure out what your company
would look like if you hired 50 more
people in X region and and reduce 12
staff in other regions they simulate the
financial reality of your business in
real time they are crushing it in this
new reality where every company is
trying to do more with less so if you're
a rep I think so much of your success is
going to be having the wind at your back
and a lot of what I would do right now
is to try to make sure I was going
somewhere where I was going to have the
wind in my sales versus the opposite so
I I know you said a lot of things so
what are your thoughts well it's
interesting we we got up the other day
um what should we talk about today Ben
and uh so we knew a little bit uh coming
in what the topic was going to be and so
just sort of like thinking about what I
wanted to say basically all the same
same points um and and sort of like
different flavors or potentially um
different takeaways so I'll talk through
them but um at a minimum it will
reinforce a lot of what you talked about
um but hopefully there's some potential
takeaways uh contained with my with with
my thoughts uh that are a little
different from uh yours
um I love your sort of like it's
different for executives and uh
individual contributors or AES there's
some consistencies but I'll just
approach it from the what are the
signals that uh this is gonna be a
successful company or the type of
company that you want to join first and
foremost we're gonna say it again it's
the founder Founders
um no one will more heavily in influence
the success of the business than the
founders and so this is not an area to
sacrifice in
um some things come to mind in terms of
what makes a great founder uh one of
them is a dream big mindset
they're ambitious to build a massive
company Parker told me zenovitz is going
to be a 100 billion dollar company and I
believed him Rex's Wi-Fi password was by
AMX 2024 and they like actually had a
plan like they had thought about how
they were going to buy American Express
in 2024.
um the second thing on the founder and
you've mentioned this before they
understand the space they're building in
and the problem they are solving
intimately like they've lived it they
know it better than anyone in the world
and they are uniquely positioned to
build a company in this space
um Ryan clearly within board genius my
experience with the folks at zinfits and
Rex the same thing um won't of course
tell the stories but like they knew what
they were building they knew the space
and then the third thing that I'll flag
is um this like concept of chip on the
shoulder
um and and this typically manifests
through some form of intensity
um it and you know you can just ask
Founders directly like why do you have a
chip on your shoulder I I think it's a
it's a good question and it doesn't
really matter the story behind it as
long as you believe that it's motivating
them to the point where failure is not
an option
um and you know hopefully that resonates
with some folks uh moving on from
Founders because we've spent a lot of
time here the second thing and
interestingly uh uh Peter Thiel who
leads found her son he spends a lot of
time
um writing about this actually uh like
can this become a really big business uh
Peter's book zero to one
um I encourage you to read it if you
haven't uh it it is this is this
business the um the Monopoly business
that is a British food restaurant Palo
Alto and the only British food
restaurant in Palo Alto it's probably
not going to become a really big
business
um now I think it's totally fine and
almost standard to begin with one
segment of the market and expand from
their sort of innovators to limit
approach Rex starting is the first
corporate card for startups that's like
a pretty narrow Market but evidenced by
the Wi-Fi password had Ambitions that
were far greater than being a corporate
card for uh startups but again like this
concept of can this be a really big
business
um either in its current form or sort of
where the founders expect it to evolve
um on both of these I think there's some
signals that you can look for to help uh
both of these being the founder quality
and the ability to build a really big
business
um you mentioned it Ben an obvious one
is who are the investors if you look at
returns
um based off of uh who the investors are
they're very lopsided to the best
investors in the world
um we're on disaster's podcast Jason
limkin certainly in that category
Founders fund certainly in that category
you soon to be in that category with
your flexport fund
um there uh the other one that comes to
mind is there is data on how the
business is performing how quickly is
this business growing month over month
compare it with others
um
if you're an individual contributor ask
to see quota attainment what percentage
of the team is over quota if they've got
10 reps and one of them hit quota last
month that's a negative signal if nine
of them did that's a positive signal ask
what the average commission payout is
um ideally you want the majority of reps
over quota you want the average
commission over 100 percent
um that's a positive signal for how the
business is performing last thing that
comes to mind
um it's funny you and I said before we
joined this podcast that we each like to
talk um and I think we're probably
approving that
um last thing that I'll highlight uh and
maybe for non-execs um there are two
things one is who will you report to
your manager influences and this is true
for execs as well um your manager
influences so much from your ability to
be promoted to who you'll be working
alongside every day to your everyday
happiness level just like the the
methodology or philosophy with which
they manage the team and for Founders
this is a big part of why the hiring VP
is so critical and for ICS this must be
one of the most important criteria in
making your decision do you trust this
person your manager with your career
um and just sort of expanding on that
that concept a little bit which which is
an important one which is your career
joining a company where you have the
opportunity to grow your career is
absolutely critical
um is the business growing such that you
can advance into more senior roles
within that business that is growing
um you shouldn't sacrifice uh joining an
incredible company where you can move
into more strategic and Senior positions
for like a more OTE more more W-2 or
theoretical W-2 compensation
um you should be solving for a business
that's growing and we'll have new
leaders that are growing through the
ranks within that business and a
philosophy that we are going to promote
people from within not 100 of the time
and we're going to do it when they're
ready to be promoted but the idea is
that if you join this company as an SDR
as an AE over the next five plus years
you're going if you are good you are
going to leave this business ready to
become Julie Harris or you know the next
VP of sales or cro so at the next uh
flexport yep I I love that and I think
people underestimate how important your
manager is in particularly early in your
career in sales like the best sales
leaders help you close like truly like
the best sales leaders are literally
listening to your calls if you're
selling bigger Deals they are on the
road with you
um they see your quota as their quota a
bad sales leader sees your quota as a
number in Salesforce like that that is
that is the range of what you're going
to get from your manager either someone
who wants to help you close and will
actively be on the road with you doing
it or someone who like doesn't give a
sees you as totally fungible and
replaceable uh both of those kinds of
managers exist and are hiring sales
people right now
yeah couldn't agree more
um anything Ben we've talked a lot about
the the candidates perspective
um maybe we'll finish on anything that
we haven't highlighted that a business
can be doing um Founders Executives
anything that we haven't touched on that
um puts folks in a position to attract
the best sales leader the best sales
reps in the world
yeah I mean one is simple but I it's
it's unbelievable to me how many
companies don't reward sales with equity
and this is probably less true at the
executive levels you know sales leaders
have to do very well but you know we we
found we had incredible retention at
flexport when we paired career
progression with meaningful Equity
grants when people progressed in their
careers like it's it's very hard to give
people big Equity grants when they join
a seller because there's just such a
high failure rate there's so much
variability and outcomes it's just hard
to know what a seller's worth when they
come in as an SDR in particular and in
many cases even as an AE but if someone
proves their worth if someone shows that
they are a top performer if someone
proves that they can be a hiring manager
so improve they can be a day-to-day
leader
rewarding them with equity and making
sure that they have real skin in the
game for the long-term success of the
business that's the number one thing
that I think companies get wrong about
sales they see it as you know every
salesperson is coin operated totally not
true a salespeople very smart for the
most part at least the good ones they
can do the math on you know deferred
compensation with form of equity versus
high tax compensation today in the form
of cash
um and I think companies that use the
equity lever in particular over the next
two to four years well belts are going
to be a little tighter you know venture
capital is not flowing as quickly as we
might like if you don't have cash to
incentivize people you have to use
equity and I think companies have to
think of sellers like they would any
other super scarce role like engineering
Talent uh and incentivize it with Equity
so that's like if I were if I were a
hiring leader right now it's the number
one thing I'd make sure my company was
doing for for sellers
um the number the other thing is it's so
hard to stand out like there's so many
freaking companies now like in in any
sense like you didn't have to be as
smart as someone has to be today to pick
brex when you did I didn't have to be as
smart to pick flexport like YC was
smaller like YC was more able to
identify the flex ports and the brexit
as breakouts like Paul Graham had
already identified Ryan and Flex for it
as a breakout from ysd before he went
into YC and you know that because he got
called on stage at startup school by
Paul before he was officially accepted
into YC like that so it it in many cases
I think the world was just smaller and
it was easier to stand out of the
company today you've got to do whatever
whatever you can Under the Sun to stand
out I think one is raisy for tier one
investors two is like riding the wave of
PR one of the lessons we learned from
you know first is this guy Roy runs
Bloomberg which is Bloomberg Michael
Bloomberg philanthropic that Gerard so
it's like it's a big Venture arm but all
the money goes back into the into
philanthropy um so he basically told us
look no one gives a about you or
your story like no no journalist wants
to write about Flex board no this this
is way back in 2014. you know but what
they do care about is whatever the
current thing is and like this is
marketing reason verbiage now but back
then it was like whatever the media is
obsessed with that for that week that's
all they're going to write about anyway
and if you want them to care about your
business you've got to find some way to
attach yourself to the current thing you
can't try to make yourself the current
thing it's literally impossible I think
that's the number one mistake you know
first time Founders or first-time
marketing leaders make is they try to
get the world to care about them and
what they should be doing is trying to
attack themselves for the thing the
world already cares about so if you were
a Founder I think your homework tonight
is a go home and think seriously about
how your company relates to whatever the
world is talking about on Twitter on
Instagram right now and if you can't
think of it okay bad luck maybe right
now there's nothing for you to latch on
to but I think in general there's always
sort of something and another hack that
we learned hilariously from from uh
actually I shouldn't say because I don't
want to portray this
um it was from a celebrity um would they
effectively told us if there's nothing
in the current media cycle for you to
talk about the one thing that's always
acceptable to talk about is we're good
deeds
um so it's like it's one of those funny
things in life like where you do good
the universe really does work with you
if you have a philanthropic arm if your
company does something that makes the
world a better place it is the one thing
that is acceptable to talk about and
then potentially you can self-promote
and not have people totally hate you for
it so I think like the two lessons that
the flexible dream flexwork build is
enormous.org alarm that does incredible
work uh and I don't think the idea ever
was to sort of attach it to the media
cycle but it is unbelievable how
positively people perceive you if you
were doing good in the world so um yeah
that sort of is is the if I were a
Founder those are the things I'd be
thinking about
lots of interesting uh uh points there
on the first one related to equity the
thing that's going through my mind and
Jason has a number of tweets and posts
and and um talks about this a lot just
this concept of like
you're almost certainly overpaying your
worst employee and underpaying your best
employee
um and like give your best employee a
raise now
um yeah do it today like make sure those
people stay and that can come in the
form of equity that can come in the form
of you know career growth and title and
and whatever else but um uh it it
um certainly like resonates with me I I
within within sales I find that to be um
very true and I'm sure it it um uh
transcends other departments as well
um and as you're talking about this like
you know make your company relevant with
what is uh already relevant or associate
your company with what is already
relevant you talked earlier about Ryan
doing the tour of the the
um ports like you know that was uh real
blessing for flexport that uh the
hottest topic of
um the the month or or maybe even year
was this concept of like Supply fly
chain and shipping being backed up and
the prices of I mean like man was that
uh
um free free advertising or something
like that for you guys well and in right
this is really he had been practicing
for this moment for years and I mean
what I mean by that is he had been four
years he had been the most generous
human in the world with journalists you
know when there were lesser stories like
for instance like when we first started
flexport hanjin you know which was a big
shipping line collapsed and it left
people's cargo stranded all over the
world like if you were Nike if you were
any any major Fortune 100 you literally
didn't know where your stuff was it
wasn't clear who owned it because it was
like a vessel that was had a Liberian
flag that was owned owned by by owned by
the Korean government it was like who
knows who's actually going to take
position at this target at the end of
the day
um it was hard to understand the story
and it was hard if you're a journalist
who's not from this world to understand
what's going on and Ryan just spent
hours showing people how to track
vessels you know walking through
maritime law like just giving and giving
and giving and in many cases getting
nothing out of it uh or you know maybe
getting a minor like a one line Ryan
Peterson who won a one-line quote in a
story but it all it all sort of
culminated in you know one the Forbes
cover last year but that was ultimately
the combination to your point of him
being the face of the port crisis and
sort of the the coveted shipping Rush
um so it's like yeah a lot of these
things are long games like so if you're
building a startup as you know it's like
it's a 10-year play and I think you know
Ryan laid the foundation for you know
for our PR strategy in years zero to
four and then it just started paying off
enormous dividends and years call it
five through nine
uh very cool I'm gonna flag one uh
fairly tactical thing and then let's
wrap uh the the thing that comes to mind
that I see folks make a mistake on and
you have to remember when you're hiring
a specially individual contributors many
of these folks they're they're living
month to month uh or close to month to
month like they don't have a bunch of
reserves and they've built expenses such
that they're living
um nearly month to month off of their
full salary salary and commission or
base and commission and so joining a new
company as a sales rep can be um
daunting and potentially prohibitive in
joining based off of the structure of
the the compensation during the first
few months one thing that we did at Rex
and that I suggest for Founders
especially in the early days is you're
hiring like the first couple folks where
it's unclear what Revenue contribution
is going to look like and they're taking
on a lot of risk you can really de-risk
that through either you know you're
hiring your first two sales reps put
them on a draw for 60 to 90 days and a
draw means pay them their full
commission if you're paying somebody
like a hundred and fifty thousand
dollars a year that means that their
commission is going to be 75 000. that
means each month they're going to be
making something like six thousand
dollars uh that you're going to draw
them and so in total if you draw them
for 60 days that's 12 Grand per rep it's
not gonna break the bank and it can be
the difference between hiring an
incredible person and not
um sort of like continuing along with
that methodology as the business grows
um we we had a ramping quota uh during
the Reps first three months
um and if the rant if the rep hit the
ramping quota they received their full
OTE so their full commission during
those first 90 days now they couldn't
exceed it you couldn't have you know
your first month is 10 of your fully
ramped quota if you could do 100 you
don't make 10x your foot right earful
commission
um you were capped at 100 but it made it
so much like they didn't even have to
think about it
um yeah I think folks underestimate the
importance of this for new individual
contributors sales reps
um that uh don't have you know
meaningful savings to get through this
period that is the uh new higher ramp
yeah and did you do it as a traditional
draw where the rep effectively had to
pay it back out of their future
commissions once they were quote unquote
ramped or did you do it as like a more
generous version of a draw where they
just were basically at 100
OT while they were ramping you're
getting too technical on me and I may be
misusing the draw language in its uh
purest form but
um the way that we did it was we had a
ramping quota and you attained that
ramping quota you received the full OTE
commission during the onboarding or
ramping uh period you did not okay
yeah so that's it this is this is
exactly what we did at flexport and
what's with some old school sales Ops
leaders explained to me because I also
didn't know this is that in the in the
old school staff and I think it's still
in some companies they actually make the
the rep effectively Bank what they've
been overpaid and then once they're at
full OTE it comes out of their future
commissions check so which I hate I was
like nothing is less motivating to me
than the idea that the moment someone
gets really good at their job they make
a little bit less money for a while like
it should be the opposite so we never
did a deflect sport but when you said
draw I was very curious about what you
guys did yeah the the what you just
described what comes to mind is like a
little ticky tacky I don't need a loan
like uh I just want to make the amount
of money that uh I have uh become
accustomed to making in a sort of like
market for for
um my role something like that
um Ben awesome to see you uh we I'm sure
we'll hang out sometime very soon
looking forward to that thank you for uh
doing the Pod today and uh let's let's
catch up soon
wonderful to see you thank you for
having me bye
foreign
[Music]